README.md, before:

### Debian Installation Automation

***This is currently in progress and kinda sorta works.***

A basic way of getting a Debian system up and running with minimal effort using past configuration settings. 


## What it does

The long-term goal is to get the script in such a state where it can create Debian disk images that can immediately be pushed to virtulization (though the option will never be removed to install on bare metal). This way, the OS can be spun up much faster, with consistent configuration settings, fully open source. 

Using a netinst Debian ISO (located https://www.debian.org/CD/netinst/), the script will take the onerous process of repeatedly setting up Debian machines and automate it. In my opinion, this is much quicker than repeatedly going through the graphical installer. The netinst was chosen because it represents a single CD which enables the installation of Debian, with all packages other than the base system being fetched over the internet. Because of this, a network connection, like Ethernet or WLAN is recommended. (The process can also be done with other Debian ISO flavors, but that version has been the most stable thus far)

The setup installs in the current user profile instead of creating a new user because it is often unnecessary to do that. I know I create my basic user profile when going through the initial installer, so it just seems extraneous to do otherwise. 

For the purposes of development, I used the netinst CD image for AMD64 (https://cdimage.debian.org/debian-cd/current/amd64/iso-cd/debian-13.0.0-amd64-netinst.iso). 

This is strongly inspired by Luke Smith's LARBS (https://github.com/LukeSmithxyz/LARBS) and mostly just seemed like a fun project to do. 


## Project Structure

```
debian/
├── installer.sh   # Main installation script
├── runtimelog.txt # Script log (name can be changed in configs)
├── user-scripts/  # Optional directory where user scripts can be added
├── configs/       # Default configs for Debian installation
├── userguide/     # PDF (LaTex) with instructions for use
├── README.md
└── LICENSE
```


## How to run it

1) Go through the basic steps of the minimal installation. This can be done by clicking the "Install" option in the Debian bootable media. Before running anything else, run the following script line on your original system to get an overview of the packages needed:

```
echo "PACKAGES=($(apt-mark showmanual | sed 's/.*/\"&\"/' | tr '\n' ' '))"
```

This exact output should be pasted into the userinfo.sh file to replace the $PACKAGES variable &#8594; this will ensure that any packages the user installed on the original system will also be installed on the new setup.


2) Clone the repo somewhere convenient. I like to create a folder "~/builds" and then move to a better place later. After the repo has been cloned, you may need to make the script executable with:

```
chmod +x installer.sh
```

3) Run the script with:

```
./installer.sh
```


## Tested Versions of Debian

- Debian 13
    - Stable
- Debian 12
    - Stable


## Requirements

- Debian installation
- git
- sudo permissions
- Qemu (for disk preparation --> $ sudo apt-get install qemu-utils qemu-system-x86_64 qemu-system-gui)






## License

Commit message:

Slight fixes and beginning of autoinstall configuration

README.md, after:

### Debian Installation Automation

***This is currently in progress and kinda sorta works.***

A basic way of getting a Debian system up and running with minimal effort using past configuration settings. 


## What it does

The long-term goal is to get the script in such a state where it can create Debian disk images that can immediately be pushed to virtulization (though the option will never be removed to install on bare metal). This way, the OS can be spun up much faster, with consistent configuration settings, fully open source. 

Debian 11 (Bullseye) and later versions support automated installations using the Autoinstall mechanism. The autoinstall file is in the YAML format and, for the purposes of this script, sets up a minimal Debian installation, with most of the work being done by the installer.sh. This allows for quick configuration through the userinfo.sh file, removing the need to dive through YAML. For anybody more used to using Linux config files, this should be less of a barrier to entry. 

Using a Debian ISO, the script will take the onerous process of repeatedly setting up Debian machines and automate it. A network connection, like Ethernet or WLAN is recommended. 

For the purposes of development, I used the netinst CD image for AMD64 (https://cdimage.debian.org/debian-cd/current/amd64/iso-cd/debian-13.0.0-amd64-netinst.iso). 

This is strongly inspired by Luke Smith's LARBS (https://github.com/LukeSmithxyz/LARBS) and mostly just seemed like a fun project to do. 


## Project Structure

```
debian/
├── installer.sh   # Main installation script
├── runtimelog.txt # Script log (name can be changed in configs)
├── user-scripts/  # Optional directory where user scripts can be added
├── configs/       # Default configs for Debian installation
├── userguide/     # PDF (LaTex) with instructions for use
├── README.md
└── LICENSE
```


## How to run it

1) Go through the basic steps of the minimal installation. This can be done by clicking the "Install" option in the Debian bootable media. Before running anything else, run the following script line on your original system to get an overview of the packages needed:

```
echo "PACKAGES=($(apt-mark showmanual | sed 's/.*/\"&\"/' | tr '\n' ' '))"
```

This exact output should be pasted into the userinfo.sh file to replace the $PACKAGES variable &#8594; this will ensure that any packages the user installed on the original system will also be installed on the new setup.


2) Clone the repo somewhere convenient. I like to create a folder "~/builds" and then move to a better place later. After the repo has been cloned, you may need to make the script executable with:

```
chmod +x installer.sh
```

3) Run the script with:

```
./installer.sh
```


## Tested Versions of Debian

- Debian 13
    - Stable
- Debian 12
    - Stable


## Requirements

- Debian installation
- git
- sudo permissions
- Qemu (for disk preparation --> $ sudo apt-get install qemu-utils qemu-system-x86_64 qemu-system-gui)






## License
